# Reference https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B02f-jyOFF0

##### What is mesh shading
So what is mesh shading? It's a new type shading that uses tries combine all the pre-rasteriser shaders into 2 different shaders, with one being optional a fixed funtion stage, this is optioanl. The traditional graphics pipeline for vulkan goes like this Input Assembly -> Vertex Shader -> Tessilation Control Shader -> Tesserlator -> Tesserlation Evaluation Shader -> Geometry Shader -> rasteriser -> fragment shader -> Output merge/colour blending. Over the years, the geometry side of the graphics pipeline which is everything before the rasteriser has grown. Yes, a lot of these shaders are optional but this is still very complex. So mesh shadering tried to simplify the graphics pipeline with Task Shaders -> Mesh geneation -> Mesh Shaders -> rasteriser -> fragment shader -> Output merge/colour blending. 
##### History of mesh shading
This technology was invented by Nivdia and released to the public in 2019 on the last version of GTX graphics cards the 16 series on the Turing microarchitecture graphics cards and later in 2020 AMD and Nvidia released RDNA 2 and Ampere microarchitectures which supported mesh shading for AMD at around this time the Khronos added the general mesh shading extension within Vulkan so it wasn't just Nvidia only now, finally in 2022 intel finally supported mesh shading.

##### Different mesh shading algorithms
I wrote 3 algorithms to do with removing triangles from models using mesh shaders.
1) Meshlet back faced culling. 
2) Camera view frustum culling against the camera. 
3) Occlusion culling which isn't mesh shading exclusive with the addition of quick view frustrum culling.
##### Mesh based culling
What we are going to for occulsion culling is test depth values based on objects we have rendered. If an object is in front of another object the depth values of the one behind is greater than the one closer. We can't just sample the depth buffer directly because it's possible objects would be only partly covered by another. Meaning we have to do something smarter.
##### Indirect draw calls
We are also using indirect draw calls for our mesh shading, which means we are going to use our occlusion culling compute shader to drive the mesh shading, since we are doing indirect draw calls we only have to run the mesh/task indirect draw call once the CPU once with a buffer which builds up the draw calls we will let the GPU generate. This means that in our GPU we can remove objects lowering the amount of draw calls, which will improve rendering. The general idea here is that we only generate draw calls for models that haven't been occluded, reducing the amount of work the mesh shading has to do. Meaning we are doing something called GPU driven rendering, the algorithms on the shaders are telling the GPU what it should draw.

The occlusion method I used is just using the meshes I have draw as occluders meaning I wont be using any special occlusion geometry, so no occulsion queries. What we want to do is take the depth buffer as a texture and, downsample by taking the maximum of each pixel as things have a larger depth values as they get further away from the camera. We do downsample over and over again building up a mip-chain of depth textures of 2by2 grid of pixels which we can look up later. This is called a depth pyramid. You can see what this looks like if I hope over to my other project, you can see I'm going up and down the depth pyramid which I'm rendering as a texture on the screen.

We can very easily get a bound sphere of the model we are interested in and we quickly do a view frustrum occlusion check based on the view frustrum planes with this line of code here. We are uploading 6 different planes which make up the view frustum camera shape.

The next step is to take our model and see at what point in the depth pyramid is it completely covered by a 2by2 grid of depth pixels. Meaning we need to found the approate level of detail for our depth pyramid depending on our models size and location. The problem is we have a Perspective-Projected 3D Sphere not a 2D texture to work with. If we had a 2D texture we could use the textureLod function to get the mip level of any texture using uv coordinates of the texture.

Using this 2D Polyhedral Bounds of a Clipped, Perspective-Projected 3D Sphere algorithm which has been simplified greatly by Arseny. Assuming we don't care about if a model is being clipped by our camera's near plane we can get the 2D sqaure we need correctly get the depth values we are looking for.

Lets break down what I'm talking about as I might be running too far ahead. The persective is pretty easy to understand things get smallers as they get further away, this is because of persective all 3D games do this. Now what's Perspective-Projected? Well that's just taking a object that's been transformed to be in perspective and project that on to something. In our case we've using a simplied version were we are just projected into an XZ plane making a 2D disk. What's that mean though? Well think about how all 3D games work, game developers do calculations to make things move around in the 3D world but then we project that into the screen, that's all I'm doing here but this is just taking a sphere and projecting on to a XZ plane. With our Perspective-Projected 3D Sphere which surrounds our model we can just get the AABB box by get the minimum and maximum values in both x and y here which is in clip space and here we convert it to UV space, meaning we have a texture we can do a texture lookup with explicit level-of-detail getting the level of the depth pyramid!

Now you maybe be thinking why not just calculate the AABB of the model on the CPU and pass it up the the GPU, I believe this saves memory bandwidth sending even moderately sized can slow things down if there are many objects in the scene. We also needed the perspective version of the AABB meaning we would have to do the work anyway on the CPU to work this out.

Okay so we have an AABB, now with that information we can logarithm of the largest between the width and the height of to determine which level of the pyramid we should use for the depth value lookup. 

Next we get the uv coordinates of the 2by2 pixel grid which then will use with the level variable and the depth texture we do a textureLod look up which gets the mip chain we are looking for using the uv coordinates, meaning we get the 2by2 grid at the correct level of detail which is what the level variable does.

Our goal now is to find the maximum value out of these 4 pixels returned in the 2by2 grid. We do this by assign a depth varaible which is then used to sample over each pixel of the 2by2 grid, we do this 4 times which will return the pixels with the greatest depth value.

Then we want to workout which direction we are facing and depending if this is a late or early version we get the screenSpaceCentreLast which will get us our depth sphere. Then we do a quick perspective divide and now have a check to see if object we ar checking is infront or behind the largest depth pixel we checked for in our depth pyramid.

This techniqually is enough to build up draw command buffers once then everything breaks. The problem is we need to run this twice per frame in an early culling pass and a late culling pass. To use the objects that are rendered as occluders you have to render them first. Meaning we have to use the previous frame to first occlude what was drawn. As you might expect it's possible that we occluded things that are now visible in this frame. Then we make sure that this continues working we also have to keep updating the depth buffer and the depth pyramid every frame. So knowing this we have to run this test again but first we store a list of these objects that are false negative, store that and run the test again. We this information we can generate a new list of draw calls which we go over again with this compute shader only checking these guys removing the false positives and negatives. This final list gets send over the mesh shading part these then get drawn restarting the process over again.

Then finally we build up the command buffers that are going to be used depending on if things are occluded by the camera or by another model. The only difference between alpha mask and the transparency flag is that the count for the draw index is different depending if we are using opaque or transparent models. The first and last task is operating under the mesh and task shader will be running 32 threads in a warp.

So lets get into the what we actually do with the mesh shaders.

One thing I should add quickly about mesh shading it's possible you can make it faster than the traditional pipeline, but beating the traditional pipeline in speed is going to be very hard to do. Mesh shading is good only because it provides more new features that are very useful for graphics programmers. As the mesh shaders models doesn't work with vertices or primitives, but with generic data like compute shaders you have to write shader algorithms differently if you want to the same results as with other shader modesl. It's recommended that you break up the models into meshlets and write your algorithms around meshlets. 

Meshlets are a new geometric primitive, these little guys are basically tiny meshes that come from regular meshes. You can generate these meshlets in anyway you want, on the CPU or offline or in the shader, so it's not like the geometry shader were the geometry can only be generated more within your task shader. In this demo here I've generate them on the CPU using the mesh optimiser and then used them in the task and mesh shader. Due to this being like a compute shader it operates on groups of thread called warps or waveforms. 

Now because everything is using a generic data instead of vertices we can't use the Input Assembly to push vertices from a vertex buffer to the vertex shader. We have to pull data off the CPU like we would with any other type of data like textures for example. I've done handled with with a Shader Storage Buffer Object which are like Uniform Buffer Objects but they store arrays of data, perfect for what we need. Here I have a shader and instead of having attributes number 0 through n, we have a SSBO here which takes in array of a struct which match the vertex attributes of a model I want to upload to a shader and do some work on. This is trickery than I'm making out, when you're uploading data from the CPU to the GPU via a descriptor the struct on the CPU needs to be 16 byte aligned to match with the GPU padding, if you get this wrong the data is complete rubbish. I've found success using GLSL padding type of std140 to make sure you have consistent padding across the GPU and CPU. I found the hardest part of this to get the index buffer to match up with the vertices being loading into a giant buffer that's going to fit into a SSBO without completely breaking.

You can see for this model if I switch between the mesh shading and non-mesh shading the model flickers, something is still wrong with this code, likely to do with the re-order of vertices and indices I have done for optimisation.

So the first algorithm I learnt how to write was working backfaced culling which needs to be handled differently with meshlets. With triangles, Culling is pretty straight forward when you're working with triangles, this is because you can very easily work out the front and back of a triangle by it's normal vector, which you can think of as an arrow the point forward for the triangle with a length of 1 to show which way it's facing. We work this normal out by the triangle widing, we take the triangle and we count it's vertices clockwise or anti-clockwise. If we flip the triangle and count the vertices you can see that it's different, because of this we can say if the order is in a particular way say clockwise going 1, 2, 3 that's considered facing the camera and we draw it, otherwise we cull it. 

Now meshlets how do we know which way they are facing? Well based on what we know about the triangles we can simply add the normals together. This creates a cone because typically not all triangles will be facing the same direction. The wider the cone the more different the normals of the triangles are. We generate the cone, meshlet and sphere all together here.

Lets look into what we are generating to pass up to the shaders. The first four float make up the bounding sphere of the meshlets. cone_axis tells use the direction and the cone_cutoff gives use the cone angle, this angle is angle at the point of the cone. I haven't used the cone_apex it can be used for better culling with the cost of a more expensive algorithm. The other values are the same as the cone_axis and cone_cutoff but they quantised code. Meaning that we use these values to save memory while passing them to the shader and decompress the results in the shader before using them.

Using the quantised I decompress the cone axis and the cone cutoff angle. We that data we can now running the meshlet backface culling.

We compute the cosine of the angle between the cone axis and the vector towards the camera from the centre of the bounding sphere. Then I scales the cone cutoff by the distance between the camera and the centre of the bounding sphere plus the radius of the bounding sphere. This calculation works out if the cone is facing towards or away from the camera.

This is done on the task shader is important because it generates instances of mesh shaders. So we can increase or decrease the amount of times the mesh shader is ran. So all the occulsion and culling algorithms are ran in the task shader because we are trying to reduce the amount of mesh shaders we are running reducing the amount of data we sending to the rasteriser and the fragment shader. 

Another thing we can do is generate spheres around the meshlets and run the same culling algorithm on these meshlets as we did with the when we wanted to cull meshes. The major difference here is that we don't need to do this twice because the culling work we did earilier in the compute shader shoved that for us.

The advantage of doing this per-meshlet that is that we are able to cull geometry that's large. If you have a big mountain in the distance for example like in this demo, you can see even when the camera is barely looking at it, you still have to render the entire thing. Since we we have bounding spheres around the meshlets we can break thins up and cull them. If I freeze the camera you can see the results of that.

After both of these culling methods are done we generate mesh shaders instances. There isn't much in here we are just transforming data as if it were a strange vertex shader. It's important note when running the mesh shader we have to output geometry to rasteriser. On nvidia hardare you'll typically want 64 vertices and 126 primitives, why not 128 because that's a power of 2? Well you're output indices and the amount of primitives too so it's good to leave a little room for that. This is important because if you overrun this value the GPU will have to allocate another chunk of memory for the rest of the triangles, slowing things down. I believe 124 allows for more a converitive numbers of triangles without giving us any extra restrictions.

That's it for the mesh shading GPU driven pipeline code I wrote. There is certainly more than just what I explained when it comes to mesh shading, it's a huge topic that spans all sort of techniques and effects outside of culling. I hope I did an okay job of explaining how this works, I will provide resources in the description for those people who are interesting in exploring. 

I did say eariler writing mesh shading code was a mistake this isn't strictly true, I just didn't know what I was getting myself into. Programming graphics well is difficult there's a lot of highly specialised knowledge I failed to realise how much of a change it would be to move to a GPU driven renderer. I really started to think about this when a game developer asked me this question, are you making a game or a game engine? Now, I had always said to people I'm making this game engine to make the game I want. I believe that I had increased the complexity to solve a problem I didn't need to solve yet. I don't have 2D rendering for the UI, physics for collision detection or anything else that a game would require to be playable.

The other major problem was that I got it working with static geometry. There is more work needed here to generate the cones and that sphere for the meshlets. If you've naive with animation it breaks all the mesh shading culling. Lets say for example we have a simple animation and we cull the geometry as if it was static, when you animate in a shader you deform the vertices which would change the cone and the bound sphere for culling. Meaning everything would break. I'm aware now that I need to walk the animation hierarchy and consider the maximum range of the skinned model, but that is point. I was spending way too much time just on future. However this is hard to get right if you don't even have models that animate correctly anyway.

So when I say it was a mistake, it was a mistake in the sense that I needed to have properties other things to make more progress on making a game and consider the time and complexity of moving to a fully GPU driven mesh shading renderer.


